README.md, before:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/statonlab/TripalTestSuite.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/statonlab/TripalTestSuite) [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/123318173.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/123318173)

**TripalTestSuite** is a composer package that handles
common test practices such as bootstrapping Drupal
before running the tests, creating test file, and creating
and managing database seeders (files that seed the database
with data for use in testing).

# Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Automatic Set Up](#automatic-set-up)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Creating Tests](#creating-tests)
  - [Running Tests](#running-tests)
  - [TripalTestCase](#tripaltestcase)
  - [Using DB Transactions to Automatically Rollback Database Changes](#using-db-transactions-to-automatically-rollback-database-changes)
  - [Database Seeders](#database-seeders)
  	- [Creating Database Seeders](#creating-database-seeders)
  	- [Using Database Seeders](#using-database-seeders)
  	- [Running Seeders](#running-seeders)
  - [Data Factories](#factories)
  	- [Defining Factories](#defining-factories)
  	- [Using Factories](#using-factories)
      - [Overriding Defaults](#overriding-defaults)
  - [Publishing Tripal Entities](#publishing-tripal-entities)
  - [Testing HTTP Requests](#testing-http-requests)
  	- [Available HTTP Testing Methods](#available-http-testing-methods)
  - [Helper Methods](#helper-methods)
  	- [Silently Testing Printed Output](#silently-testing-printed-output)
  - [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)

### Installation
Within your Drupal module path (e,g `sites/all/modules/my_module`), run the following.
```bash
composer require statonlab/tripal-test-suite --dev
```

#### Automatic Set Up
This module will automatically configure your tests directory, PHPUnit bootstrap files, and travis 
continuous integration file as well as provide an example test and an example database seeder to
get you started. 

From your module's directory, execute:
```bash
# You may specify the module name or leave it blank.
# When left blank, the name of the current directory will be used as the module name.
./vendor/bin/tripaltest init MODULE_NAME 
```

This will 
- Set up the testing framework by creating the tests directory, phpunit.xml and tests/bootstrap.php
- Create an example test in tests/ExampleTest.php
- Create a DatabaseSeeders folder and an example seeder in tests/DatabaseSeeders/UsersTableSeeder.php
- Create an example `.env` file.
- Create `.travis.yml` configured to use a tripal3 docker container to run your tests  

You can now write tests in your `tests` folder.  To enable continuous
integration testing, push your module to github and [enable Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/).

### Usage

#### Creating Tests
Using `tripaltest`, you can create test files pre-populated with all the requirements.
To create a new test, run the following command from your module's root directory:
```bash
# Creates a test file called ExampleTest.php in the tests folder
./vendor/bin/tripaltest make:test ExampleTest

# Creates a test file called ExampleTest.php in tests/Features/Entities
# This will automatically detect and configure the namespace of your script
./vendor/bin/tripaltest make:test Features/Entities/ExampleTest
```
**Note:** You should not include `tests/` in your path, nor should you specify a file extension.
 
**Note:** Test names should end with `Test` for phpunit to recognize them.


#### Running Tests
Tripal Test Suite auto installs PHPunit as part of it's dependencies in composer.json.
Therefore, running tests in Tripal Test Suite is done via phpunit as such:
```bash
./vendor/bin/phpunit
```
The command above, will read your `phpunit.xml` and runs the tests accordingly.

#### TripalTestCase
Test classes should extend the TripalTestCase class. Once extended, bootstrapping
Drupal and reading your `.env` file is done automatically when the first test is run.

```php
namespace Tests;

use StatonLab\TripalTestSuite\TripalTestCase;

class MyTest extends TripalTestCase {
}
```

**Note:** If you define a `setUp` method within a test class, be sure to call `parent::setUp`!

### Using DB Transactions to Automatically Rollback Database Changes
Using DB transactions cleans up the database after every test by rolling back
the database to the original state before the test started. Therefore, anything
added to the database in one test function will not be available for the next
function. If you'd like data to be available for all of the tests, see [database
seeders](https://github.com/statonlab/TripalTestSuite#database-seeders) above.

To activate DB Transactions, simply add the DBTransaction trait to your test class:

```php
namespace Tests;

use StatonLab\TripalTestSuite\TripalTestCase;
use StatonLab\TripalTestSuite\DBTransaction;

class MyTest extends TripalTestCase {
	use DBTransaction;
}
```

The trait will automatically activate DB transactions and rollback the database when the test is finished.

**NOTE**: If the code you are testing requires a transaction, Postgres
will fail since it does not support nested transactions.


#### Database Seeders
Database seeders are also supported in TripalTestSuite. They give you the ability
to create reusable seeders that can be run using the `tripaltest` command line tool.

##### Creating Database Seeders
DB seeders can also be created automatically using `tripaltest`:
```bash
./vendor/bin/tripaltest make:seeder ExampleTableSeeder
```
The above command will create `ExampleTableSeeder.php` in `tests/DatabaseSeeders/` pre-populated
with the necessary namespace, methods and properties.

#### Using Database Seeders
DB seeders support two important methods, `up()` and `down()`. The `up()`
method is used to insert data into the database while the `down()` method
is used to clean up the inserted data. The following is an example of a Seeder class.

```php
<?php

namespace Tests\DatabaseSeeders;

use StatonLab\TripalTestSuite\Database\Seeder;

class UsersTableSeeder extends Seeder
{
    /**
     * Seeds the database with users.
     */
    public function up()
    {
        $new_user = [
            'name' => 'test user',
            'pass' => 'secret',
            'mail' => 'test@example.com',
            'status' => 1,
            'init' => 'Email',
            'roles' => [
                DRUPAL_AUTHENTICATED_RID => 'authenticated user',
            ],
        ];

        // The first parameter is sent blank so a new user is created.
        user_save(new \stdClass(), $new_user);
    }
}
```

##### Running Seeders
You can also run the seeder manually by using the static `seed()` method. For example, within a test class,
you can run `$seeder = UsersTableSeeder::seed()` which runs the `up()` method and returns an initialized seeder
object. If you are using the `DBTransaction` trait, the data will be automatically rolled at the end of each test
function.

The other option is to run it using `tripaltest` as follows
```bash
# run all available seeders
tripaltest db:seed

# Run a specific seeder by providing the class name
tripaltest db:seed ExampleSeeder
```

Note that running the seeder manually in a test function with `DBTransaction` enabled,
means that the data is available only to that function and nothing else. However,
running it using `tripaltest` makes it always available unless explicitly deleted. 

### Factories
DB factories provide a method to populate the database with fake data. Using factories, you
won't have to run SQL queries to populate the Database in every test. Since they are reusable,
you can define one factory for each table and use them across all tests.
Usage example:
```php
# Generates 100 controlled vocabularies.
# @return an array of vocabularies
$controlledVocabs = factory('chado.cv', 100)->create()
```

#### Defining Factories
Factories live in `tests/DataFactory.php`. If you don't have that file, create it. Note that this file
is auto created with `tripaltest init`.

Example DataFactory file:
```php
<?php

use StatonLab\TripalTestSuite\Database\Factory;

Factory::define('chado.cv', function (Faker\Generator $faker) {
    return [
        'name' => $faker->name,
        'definition' => $faker->text,
    ];
});
```

As shown in the example above, using `Factory::define()`, we can define new factories.
The define method takes the following parameters:

|Parameter|Type|Description|Example|
|---------|----|-----------|-------|
|$table|`string`|The table name preceded with the schema name if the schema is not public|`chado.cv` or `node`|
|$callback|`callable`|The function that generates the array. A `Faker\Generator` instance is automatically passed to the callable|see above for example|
|$primary_key|`string`|**OPTIONAL** The primary key for the given table. Primary keys auto discovered for CHADO tables only. If the factory wasn't able to find the primary key, an `Exception` will be thrown|`nid` or `cv_id`|
 
#### Using Factories
Once defined, factories can be used in test files directly or in database seeders.
Usage:
```php
# Create a single CV record
$cv = factory('chado.cv')->create();
echo "$cv->name\n";

# Create 100 CV records
$cvs = factory('chado.cv', 100)->create();

foreach ($cvs as $cv) {
  echo "$cv->name\n";
}
```

###### Overriding Defaults
Sometimes you need to override a column to be a static predictable value. The `create()` method accepts an array of values
to override the faker data with. Example:
```php
# Let's make sure the cvterm has a specific cv id
$cv = factory('chado.cv')->create();
$cv_term = factory('chado.cvterm', 100)->create([
    'cv_id' => $cv->cv_id,
])
```
The above example creates 100 cv terms that have the same cv_id.

### Publishing Tripal Entities
We provide an easy way to convert your chado records into entities. This is the equivalent of
publishing Tripal content using the GUI.

Publishing records is possible in both database seeders and directly in the test class.

The following publishes all features in `chado.feature` if they have not been published yet.
```php
// Get the cvterm id of mRNA
$cvterm = chado_select_record('cvterm', ['cvterm_id'], ['name' => 'mRNA'])[0];

// Create 100 mRNA records
$features = factory('feature', 100)->create(['type_id' => $cvterm->cvterm_id]);

// Publish all features in chado.feature
$this->publish('feature');
```

The following publishes only the given feature ids:
```php
// Get the cvterm id of mRNA
$cvterm = chado_select_record('cvterm', ['cvterm_id'], ['name' => 'mRNA'])[0];

// Create 100 mRNA records
$features = factory('feature', 100)->create(['type_id' => $cvterm->cvterm_id]);

// Get the ids of our new features
$feature_ids = [];
foreach ($features as $feature) {
    $feature_ids[] = $feature->feature_id;
}

// Publish only the given features
$this->publish('feature', $feature_ids);
```

The previous examples create mRNA entities. 

**NOTE** that an mRNA bundle must already be available before running this script.

### Testing HTTP Requests
TripalTestSuite provides a comprehensive HTTP testing methods. It allows you to call 
site urls and check that your Drupal menu items are working as expected.

For example, the following tests that the homepage is accessible and that the name of the
website is present in the response.
```php
public function testHomePage() {
  // Send a GET request
  $response = $this->get('/')
  
  // Verify the HTTP response code is "200 OK" and that the site name is visible
  $response->assertStatus(200)
           ->assertSee('My Site');
}
```

#### Available HTTP Testing Methods
The following table describes all available HTTP methods in any test class that
extends TripalTestSuite:

| name | parameters | Description | Return |
|------|------------|-------------|--------|
|`$this->get()`|**$url** `string` The url to call<br/>**$params** `array` Query parameters.<br/>**$headers** `array` Additional HTTP headers|Sends a GET request|`TestResponse`|
|`$this->post()`|**$url** `string` The url to call<br/>**$params** `array` Form request parameters.<br/>**$headers** `array` Additional HTTP headers|Sends a POST request|`TestResponse`|
|`$this->put()`|**$url** `string` The url to call<br/>**$params** `array` Query parameters.<br/>**$headers** `array` Additional HTTP headers|Sends a PUT request|`TestResponse`|
|`$this->patch()`|**$url** `string` The url to call<br/>**$params** `array` Query parameters.<br/>**$headers** `array` Additional HTTP headers|Sends a PATCH request|`TestResponse`|
|`$this->delete()`|**$url** `string` The url to call<br/>**$params** `array` Query parameters.<br/>**$headers** `array` Additional HTTP headers|Sends a DELETE request|`TestResponse`|

The `TestResponse` returned from the HTTP requests, provide the following set of assertion methods:

| name | Parameters | Description |
|------|------------|-------------|
|`$response->assertStatus()`|**$code** `int`|Verify the returned HTTP status code is equal to `$code`|
|`$response->assertSee()`|**$content** `string`|Verify the given string is present in the returned response body (i,e HTML, JSON, etc)|
|`$response->assertJsonStructure()`|**$structure** `array`|Verifies that the returned JSON matches the given structure (see below for example)|
|`$response->assertSuccessful()`|none|Verify the returned HTTP status code is between 200 and 299, which are HTTP's successful response codes|

### Helper Methods
TripalTestSuite provides a set of helper methods to automate tedious aspects of testing.

#### Silently Testing Printed Output
Since tests should run "silently", i.e. without printing output to the screen, we'd have to create
an output buffer to collect printed strings into a variable. In PHP, this can be done as such:
```php
// Supress tripal errors
putenv("TRIPAL_SUPPRESS_ERRORS=TRUE");
ob_start();
echo "testing";
$output = ob_get_contents();

// Clean the buffer and unset tripal errors suppression 
ob_end_clean();
putenv("TRIPAL_SUPPRESS_ERRORS");
```
**Note**: the above code will **not** work with large strings.

However, TripalTestSuite provides a `silent()` method that automates this process. Example
usage:
```php
$output = silent(function() {
  echo "testing";
});
$output->assertSee('testing');
```

You can also call methods directly in the Callable function:
```php
// Assume we have the following function
function tripal_print_message($message) {
  echo $message;
}

$output = silent(function() {
  tripal_print_message('tripal test suite');
});
$output->assertSee('test');

// Get the output as a string
$rawOtput = $output->getContent();
```

### Environment Variables
You can specify the Drupal web root path in `tests/.env`.
```bash
# tests/.env
BASE_URL=http://localhost
DRUPAL_ROOT=/var/www/html
FAKER_LOCALE=en_US
```

This allows TripalTestSuite to bootstrap the entire Drupal framework and make it available in your tests.

## License
TripalTestSuite is licensed under GPLv3.

Commit message:

Improve documentation of silent method

README.md, after:

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/statonlab/TripalTestSuite.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/statonlab/TripalTestSuite) [![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/123318173.svg)](https://zenodo.org/badge/latestdoi/123318173)

**TripalTestSuite** is a composer package that handles
common test practices such as bootstrapping Drupal
before running the tests, creating test file, and creating
and managing database seeders (files that seed the database
with data for use in testing).

# Table of Contents
- [Installation](#installation)
  - [Automatic Set Up](#automatic-set-up)
- [Usage](#usage)
  - [Creating Tests](#creating-tests)
  - [Running Tests](#running-tests)
  - [TripalTestCase](#tripaltestcase)
  - [Using DB Transactions to Automatically Rollback Database Changes](#using-db-transactions-to-automatically-rollback-database-changes)
  - [Database Seeders](#database-seeders)
  	- [Creating Database Seeders](#creating-database-seeders)
  	- [Using Database Seeders](#using-database-seeders)
  	- [Running Seeders](#running-seeders)
  - [Data Factories](#factories)
  	- [Defining Factories](#defining-factories)
  	- [Using Factories](#using-factories)
      - [Overriding Defaults](#overriding-defaults)
  - [Publishing Tripal Entities](#publishing-tripal-entities)
  - [Testing HTTP Requests](#testing-http-requests)
  	- [Available HTTP Testing Methods](#available-http-testing-methods)
  - [Helper Methods](#helper-methods)
  	- [Silently Testing Printed Output](#silently-testing-printed-output)
  	  - [Assertions and Methods](#assertions-and-methods)
  - [Environment Variables](#environment-variables)

### Installation
Within your Drupal module path (e,g `sites/all/modules/my_module`), run the following.
```bash
composer require statonlab/tripal-test-suite --dev
```

#### Automatic Set Up
This module will automatically configure your tests directory, PHPUnit bootstrap files, and travis 
continuous integration file as well as provide an example test and an example database seeder to
get you started. 

From your module's directory, execute:
```bash
# You may specify the module name or leave it blank.
# When left blank, the name of the current directory will be used as the module name.
./vendor/bin/tripaltest init MODULE_NAME 
```

This will 
- Set up the testing framework by creating the tests directory, phpunit.xml and tests/bootstrap.php
- Create an example test in tests/ExampleTest.php
- Create a DatabaseSeeders folder and an example seeder in tests/DatabaseSeeders/UsersTableSeeder.php
- Create an example `.env` file.
- Create `.travis.yml` configured to use a tripal3 docker container to run your tests  

You can now write tests in your `tests` folder.  To enable continuous
integration testing, push your module to github and [enable Travis CI](https://travis-ci.org/).

### Usage

#### Creating Tests
Using `tripaltest`, you can create test files pre-populated with all the requirements.
To create a new test, run the following command from your module's root directory:
```bash
# Creates a test file called ExampleTest.php in the tests folder
./vendor/bin/tripaltest make:test ExampleTest

# Creates a test file called ExampleTest.php in tests/Features/Entities
# This will automatically detect and configure the namespace of your script
./vendor/bin/tripaltest make:test Features/Entities/ExampleTest
```
**Note:** You should not include `tests/` in your path, nor should you specify a file extension.
 
**Note:** Test names should end with `Test` for phpunit to recognize them.


#### Running Tests
Tripal Test Suite auto installs PHPunit as part of it's dependencies in composer.json.
Therefore, running tests in Tripal Test Suite is done via phpunit as such:
```bash
./vendor/bin/phpunit
```
The command above, will read your `phpunit.xml` and runs the tests accordingly.

#### TripalTestCase
Test classes should extend the TripalTestCase class. Once extended, bootstrapping
Drupal and reading your `.env` file is done automatically when the first test is run.

```php
namespace Tests;

use StatonLab\TripalTestSuite\TripalTestCase;

class MyTest extends TripalTestCase {
}
```

**Note:** If you define a `setUp` method within a test class, be sure to call `parent::setUp`!

### Using DB Transactions to Automatically Rollback Database Changes
Using DB transactions cleans up the database after every test by rolling back
the database to the original state before the test started. Therefore, anything
added to the database in one test function will not be available for the next
function. If you'd like data to be available for all of the tests, see [database
seeders](https://github.com/statonlab/TripalTestSuite#database-seeders) above.

To activate DB Transactions, simply add the DBTransaction trait to your test class:

```php
namespace Tests;

use StatonLab\TripalTestSuite\TripalTestCase;
use StatonLab\TripalTestSuite\DBTransaction;

class MyTest extends TripalTestCase {
	use DBTransaction;
}
```

The trait will automatically activate DB transactions and rollback the database when the test is finished.

**NOTE**: If the code you are testing requires a transaction, Postgres
will fail since it does not support nested transactions.


#### Database Seeders
Database seeders are also supported in TripalTestSuite. They give you the ability
to create reusable seeders that can be run using the `tripaltest` command line tool.

##### Creating Database Seeders
DB seeders can also be created automatically using `tripaltest`:
```bash
./vendor/bin/tripaltest make:seeder ExampleTableSeeder
```
The above command will create `ExampleTableSeeder.php` in `tests/DatabaseSeeders/` pre-populated
with the necessary namespace, methods and properties.

#### Using Database Seeders
DB seeders support two important methods, `up()` and `down()`. The `up()`
method is used to insert data into the database while the `down()` method
is used to clean up the inserted data. The following is an example of a Seeder class.

```php
<?php

namespace Tests\DatabaseSeeders;

use StatonLab\TripalTestSuite\Database\Seeder;

class UsersTableSeeder extends Seeder
{
    /**
     * Seeds the database with users.
     */
    public function up()
    {
        $new_user = [
            'name' => 'test user',
            'pass' => 'secret',
            'mail' => 'test@example.com',
            'status' => 1,
            'init' => 'Email',
            'roles' => [
                DRUPAL_AUTHENTICATED_RID => 'authenticated user',
            ],
        ];

        // The first parameter is sent blank so a new user is created.
        user_save(new \stdClass(), $new_user);
    }
}
```

##### Running Seeders
You can also run the seeder manually by using the static `seed()` method. For example, within a test class,
you can run `$seeder = UsersTableSeeder::seed()` which runs the `up()` method and returns an initialized seeder
object. If you are using the `DBTransaction` trait, the data will be automatically rolled at the end of each test
function.

The other option is to run it using `tripaltest` as follows
```bash
# run all available seeders
tripaltest db:seed

# Run a specific seeder by providing the class name
tripaltest db:seed ExampleSeeder
```

Note that running the seeder manually in a test function with `DBTransaction` enabled,
means that the data is available only to that function and nothing else. However,
running it using `tripaltest` makes it always available unless explicitly deleted. 

### Factories
DB factories provide a method to populate the database with fake data. Using factories, you
won't have to run SQL queries to populate the Database in every test. Since they are reusable,
you can define one factory for each table and use them across all tests.
Usage example:
```php
# Generates 100 controlled vocabularies.
# @return an array of vocabularies
$controlledVocabs = factory('chado.cv', 100)->create()
```

#### Defining Factories
Factories live in `tests/DataFactory.php`. If you don't have that file, create it. Note that this file
is auto created with `tripaltest init`.

Example DataFactory file:
```php
<?php

use StatonLab\TripalTestSuite\Database\Factory;

Factory::define('chado.cv', function (Faker\Generator $faker) {
    return [
        'name' => $faker->name,
        'definition' => $faker->text,
    ];
});
```

As shown in the example above, using `Factory::define()`, we can define new factories.
The define method takes the following parameters:

|Parameter|Type|Description|Example|
|---------|----|-----------|-------|
|$table|`string`|The table name preceded with the schema name if the schema is not public|`chado.cv` or `node`|
|$callback|`callable`|The function that generates the array. A `Faker\Generator` instance is automatically passed to the callable|see above for example|
|$primary_key|`string`|**OPTIONAL** The primary key for the given table. Primary keys auto discovered for CHADO tables only. If the factory wasn't able to find the primary key, an `Exception` will be thrown|`nid` or `cv_id`|
 
#### Using Factories
Once defined, factories can be used in test files directly or in database seeders.
Usage:
```php
# Create a single CV record
$cv = factory('chado.cv')->create();
echo "$cv->name\n";

# Create 100 CV records
$cvs = factory('chado.cv', 100)->create();

foreach ($cvs as $cv) {
  echo "$cv->name\n";
}
```

###### Overriding Defaults
Sometimes you need to override a column to be a static predictable value. The `create()` method accepts an array of values
to override the faker data with. Example:
```php
# Let's make sure the cvterm has a specific cv id
$cv = factory('chado.cv')->create();
$cv_term = factory('chado.cvterm', 100)->create([
    'cv_id' => $cv->cv_id,
])
```
The above example creates 100 cv terms that have the same cv_id.

### Publishing Tripal Entities
We provide an easy way to convert your chado records into entities. This is the equivalent of
publishing Tripal content using the GUI.

Publishing records is possible in both database seeders and directly in the test class.

The following publishes all features in `chado.feature` if they have not been published yet.
```php
// Get the cvterm id of mRNA
$cvterm = chado_select_record('cvterm', ['cvterm_id'], ['name' => 'mRNA'])[0];

// Create 100 mRNA records
$features = factory('feature', 100)->create(['type_id' => $cvterm->cvterm_id]);

// Publish all features in chado.feature
$this->publish('feature');
```

The following publishes only the given feature ids:
```php
// Get the cvterm id of mRNA
$cvterm = chado_select_record('cvterm', ['cvterm_id'], ['name' => 'mRNA'])[0];

// Create 100 mRNA records
$features = factory('feature', 100)->create(['type_id' => $cvterm->cvterm_id]);

// Get the ids of our new features
$feature_ids = [];
foreach ($features as $feature) {
    $feature_ids[] = $feature->feature_id;
}

// Publish only the given features
$this->publish('feature', $feature_ids);
```

The previous examples create mRNA entities. 

**NOTE** that an mRNA bundle must already be available before running this script.

### Testing HTTP Requests
TripalTestSuite provides a comprehensive HTTP testing methods. It allows you to call 
site urls and check that your Drupal menu items are working as expected.

For example, the following tests that the homepage is accessible and that the name of the
website is present in the response.
```php
public function testHomePage() {
  // Send a GET request
  $response = $this->get('/')
  
  // Verify the HTTP response code is "200 OK" and that the site name is visible
  $response->assertStatus(200)
           ->assertSee('My Site');
}
```

#### Available HTTP Testing Methods
The following table describes all available HTTP methods in any test class that
extends TripalTestSuite:

| name | parameters | Description | Return |
|------|------------|-------------|--------|
|`$this->get()`|**$url** `string` The url to call<br/>**$params** `array` Query parameters.<br/>**$headers** `array` Additional HTTP headers|Sends a GET request|`TestResponse`|
|`$this->post()`|**$url** `string` The url to call<br/>**$params** `array` Form request parameters.<br/>**$headers** `array` Additional HTTP headers|Sends a POST request|`TestResponse`|
|`$this->put()`|**$url** `string` The url to call<br/>**$params** `array` Query parameters.<br/>**$headers** `array` Additional HTTP headers|Sends a PUT request|`TestResponse`|
|`$this->patch()`|**$url** `string` The url to call<br/>**$params** `array` Query parameters.<br/>**$headers** `array` Additional HTTP headers|Sends a PATCH request|`TestResponse`|
|`$this->delete()`|**$url** `string` The url to call<br/>**$params** `array` Query parameters.<br/>**$headers** `array` Additional HTTP headers|Sends a DELETE request|`TestResponse`|

The `TestResponse` returned from the HTTP requests, provide the following set of assertion methods:

| name | Parameters | Description |
|------|------------|-------------|
|`$response->assertStatus()`|**$code** `int`|Verify the returned HTTP status code is equal to `$code`|
|`$response->assertSee()`|**$content** `string`|Verify the given string is present in the returned response body (i,e HTML, JSON, etc)|
|`$response->assertJsonStructure()`|**$structure** `array`|Verifies that the returned JSON matches the given structure (see below for example)|
|`$response->assertSuccessful()`|none|Verify the returned HTTP status code is between 200 and 299, which are HTTP's successful response codes|

### Helper Methods
TripalTestSuite provides a set of helper methods to automate tedious aspects of testing.

#### Silently Testing Printed Output
Since tests should run "silently", i.e. without printing output to the screen, we'd have to create
an output buffer to collect printed strings into a variable. In PHP, this can be done as such:
```php
// Supress tripal errors
putenv("TRIPAL_SUPPRESS_ERRORS=TRUE");
ob_start();
echo "testing";
$output = ob_get_contents();

// Clean the buffer and unset tripal errors suppression 
ob_end_clean();
putenv("TRIPAL_SUPPRESS_ERRORS");
```
**Note**: the above code will **not** work with large strings.

However, TripalTestSuite provides a `silent()` method that automates this process. Example
usage:
```php
$output = silent(function() {
  echo "testing";
});
$output->assertSee('testing');
```

#### Assertions and Methods
The silent method returns a SilentResponse which provides the following methods.

|Method|Arguments|Description|
|------|---------|-----------|
|`assertSee()`|`$value` mixed|Asserts that the given value is present in the suppressed printed output|
|`assertReturnEquals()`|`$value` mixed| Asserts that the given value equals the returned value from the called function|
|`assertJsonStructure()`|`$strcture` array<br>`$data` array **Optional**|Asserts that the given stricture matches that of the suppressed printed output|
|`getContent()`|None|Get the suppressed printed content as a string|
|`getReturnValue()`|None|Get the returned value from the called function|

**Examples**

```php
$output = silent(function() {
	drupal_json_output(['key' => 'value']);
	return true;
})

$output->assertSee('key')
	   ->assertJsonStructure(['key'])
	   ->assertReturnEquals(true);
``` 

You can also call methods directly in the Callable function:
```php
// Assume we have the following function
function tripal_print_message($message) {
  echo $message;
}

$output = silent(function() {
  tripal_print_message('tripal test suite');
});
$output->assertSee('test');

// Get the output as a string
$rawOtput = $output->getContent();
```

### Environment Variables
You can specify the Drupal web root path in `tests/.env`.
```bash
# tests/.env
BASE_URL=http://localhost
DRUPAL_ROOT=/var/www/html
FAKER_LOCALE=en_US
```

This allows TripalTestSuite to bootstrap the entire Drupal framework and make it available in your tests.

## License
TripalTestSuite is licensed under GPLv3.
